# Welcome to Michael Mihalik's ePortfolio

## About Me
test test test

> As an older college student who tried conventional schooling at a big public university, this time in my educational career is bittersweet. While my tenure here at SNHU has been tumultuous with the normal balancing my education, family life and career, it is extremely emotional for me to finally cross the finish line and achieve my goals. The computer science program here at SNHU has amplified my strengths in ways I could never imagine and has affected my skills such as collaborating in a team environment, communication, data structures and algorithms, software engineering and database and finally security.

> The set up of how SNHU teaches courses is really conducive to the team environment setup. In most courses, there is a weekly discussion post where ideas are shared between classmates and the instructor. This is not unlike communication between a real team in a professional environment. I think that to be a more well-rounded engineer and programmer, you need to be able to articulate how something works and explain it to people that do not have that technical grounding. Often, this group of people are your stakeholders on your project. Being able to be clear and concise about the idea’s you are trying to express reduces confusion. I would say that overall, every technical course has really done well to improve my ability to explain to others my intentions and goals. 

> This ePortfolio has really made me thing about data structures in a way that I had not really considered before. I will admit that I have used them before in most applications that I have ever written, but I had not considered their intended use and certainly not their scalability. With the ever-interconnected nature of our online world the perspective as a developer is that there will be always more data to parse and more numbers to crunch. Picking a data structure and algorithm that properly handles the job is important to keeping things flowing at a regular pace. As part of my first two milestones, I examined my final project from my Data Structures and Algorithms class and have modified it in a way that expresses my newfound knowledge. 

> Design is especially important to having applications go the mile and last far beyond there expiration date. The concept of ‘clean code’ and having an adequate design before starting an implementation has always appealed to me and I have practiced this well both in the milestones for this capstone as well as other applications within this course. I think the warehouse inventory application that I had completed as part of Android Development has really shown this off well. Classes are labeled, and designed in an efficient manner, carefully not to put to much bloat into them and using service classes when at all possible. Comments are left to make sure that myself or the next maintainer get an understanding of what my thoughts were at that moment which may add context with finding and solving bugs within my code. As I have progressed this this program, I have experienced new ways of interacting with MongoDB and MySQL that I had no experience with. While I come from a TSQL background, there were some tips and tricks that I had not learned before; how Indexes work and how best to tune them to make your queries run fast. I think this additional input from my coursework has really honed my strengths in this area and I am ready for the next big challenge. 

> The curriculum only in the last year has stepped firmly into the realm of security. While I have had only a small taste of this tenet, I can see how vitally important it is to the professional world. Every month, we hear about a major hack or data breech that results in the loss of millions of dollars in data and confidence within companies. I have been taking CS 405 Secure Coding in conjunction with this course, and it really has opened my eyes to the concept of Secure Coding and how important that is. It’s one idea to create an application that affects millions, but it’s something different when you know that the information that application deals with is handled in a secure fashion and that your app won’t result in someone losing their identity. Because I have a fondness for security, the teachings of Secure Coding are really starting to show up in my recent work. Some examples are ensuring that casts between datatypes do not leak data and that when using an un-managed language like C++ that I free pointers and resources correctly and do not call them once they are closed. Between Secure Coding and the preparation of this ePortfolio it has truly impacted the direction I want to go professionally, and I have started looking at Security Engineering as a career path.

> For this capstone, I have selected two artifacts that I think are complementary in showing off my skill set. My first is the final project from CS260 dealing in the implementation of 3 basic data structures: single linked lists, binary trees, and hash tables. These data structures are key as they are in most cases built on top of for more advanced data structures like stacks & heaps. This project really focuses on the software development and engineering side of Computer Science. I try to practice clean code and secure programming in order to prevent ways from someone destabilizing my application and being shoehorned into a specific corner due to bad design. The second artifact for this capstone is changes made to the CRUD_MODULE_V2 from CS340. This module is designed to do basic operations on a MongoDB database without having to extensively understand the syntax of Mongodb (just must know python). I have included additional functionality to handle more advanced SQL Operations like joins and create and deleting indexes.



### Milestone One: Code Reviews

### Milestone Two: Software Engineering & Design

### Milestone Three: Data Structures & Algorithms

### Milestone Four: Databases

* [Referenced Material](7-1_FINAL.docx)

